UNSAIDBOX EMAIL — HOSTINGER

Sender and reply-to: UnsaidBox <hello@unsaidbox.com>
SMTP: smtp.hostinger.com, port 465, TLS certificate validation required.
The app does not read the mailbox. Replies go to Hostinger webmail.

1. INSTALL THE TABLES
The restricted app user cannot CREATE tables. In the existing Hostinger VPS
console, use your database maintenance login to run the contents of:
  prisma/migrations/20261006020000_email_delivery/migration.sql
against ONLY the unsaidbox database. Do not recreate existing tables.
After verifying both tables match the migration, record it from the Mac:
  npx prisma migrate resolve --applied 20261006020000_email_delivery
  npx prisma migrate status

2. SAVE THE MAILBOX SETTINGS PRIVATELY ON YOUR MAC
In the unsaidbox project:
  npm run email:configure
The password prompt is hidden. Never paste the password into chat, source code,
or shell commands. The helper authenticates to Hostinger before replacing .env,
preserves the existing database settings, and saves with owner-only permissions.
It preserves an existing encryption key because queued emails depend on it.
Base64 password storage prevents dotenv parsing issues; it is NOT encryption.
Keep .env private and backed up securely; do not share its contents.

Choose the app URL that email recipients can reach:
- Mac-only testing: http://127.0.0.1:3001
- Same-Wi-Fi phone testing: your Mac's LAN URL, e.g. http://192.168.1.20:3001
- Production, after deployment: https://unsaidbox.com
Local URLs only work while the Mac/dev server is running; 127.0.0.1 on a phone
means the phone, not the Mac. Never infer email URLs from request Host headers.
Email stays disabled until the table and SMTP checks succeed:
  npm run email:enable
This verifies SMTP and both tables, then enables emails in the private .env.
Restart npm run dev after enabling and keep the database SSH tunnel open.

3. CHECK AND SEND ONE TEST
  npm run email:check
Checks SMTP authentication/TLS and the new tables, without sending email.
  npm run email:test
Sends one branded message ONLY to hello@unsaidbox.com. Check Hostinger webmail
and spam. SMTP acceptance does not prove inbox delivery.

4. KEEP RETRIES RUNNING
In another Mac terminal while testing:
  npm run email:worker -- --watch
Each request also attempts one queued email after its response. This separate
worker retries pending mail every minute, including after server interruptions.
  npm run email:status
Shows aggregate counts only, not addresses, tokens, passwords or message bodies.
PENDING=waiting/retrying; SENT=accepted by SMTP; FAILED=6 attempts exhausted;
CANCELLED=no longer eligible; EXPIRED=link/message expired. FAILED payloads are
erased; request a fresh auth link after fixing delivery. SMTP can duplicate a
message if a process crashes after sending but before recording acceptance;
stable Message-ID and claims reduce duplicates but do not guarantee exactly-once.

5. END-TO-END ACCEPTANCE CHECK
Create a test account with an inbox you control. Verify that registration leaves
the account pending, the verification email arrives, GET doesn't consume the
link, confirming activates once, and the welcome email arrives. Try expired and
reused links. Reset the password, then confirm the old password and old sessions
fail, the new password works and the security notice arrives. Enable optional
notifications, submit a test inbox message and a question answer, and confirm
emails link to the dashboard without exposing sender content. Inbox alerts are
deduplicated per owner per clock-hour (so two near a boundary are possible).
Turn alerts off and confirm queued notifications are suppressed. Admins can opt
into report emails. Account suspension/restoration notices go to verified owners.
Never use an unrelated user's account or address for testing.

OPERATING LIMITS AND PRODUCTION CHECKLIST
- Optional notifications default OFF and require verified email for user/admin.
- Verification expires in 24h; reset links in 30m; random tokens stored as hashes.
- Queued links are AES-256-GCM encrypted and erased on acceptance/cancellation/
  expiry/final failure. Keep UNSAIDBOX_EMAIL_KEY stable and private.
- Current conservative caps: 20 optional emails/hour, 50 total/hour, 100 total/day.
  These are application guardrails, not a claim about your purchased quota.
  Check Hostinger's plan limits before increasing them or onboarding users.
- Hostinger must show correct MX, SPF and DKIM; check DMARC too. Use the exact
  records provided by Hostinger, merge SPF rather than adding a second record.
  No DNS records have been changed by this implementation.
- Production needs its own secure DB access (not the Mac tunnel), private SMTP
  variables, HTTPS app URL, and a scheduled worker. Nothing is deployed here.
- The protected POST /api/internal/email-worker accepts Authorization: Bearer
  UNSAIDBOX_EMAIL_WORKER_SECRET. Configure an approved scheduler for this endpoint
  or the CLI worker on a trusted server before launch. No scheduler provisioned.
- SMTP provides acceptance, not opens/bounces/delivery webhooks. Monitor mailbox
  bounces and FAILED/EXPIRED counts; a dedicated transactional provider may be
  needed as volume grows. Marketing campaigns are not implemented.
- Anonymous senders have no collected email address and receive no emails.
